the film begins in media's residential
with the space fortress sdf-1 macross
trying to evade the zentradi at the edge
of the solar system
the macross houses an entire city with
tens of thousands of civilians who are
cut off from earth
after it had executed a space fold on
the first day of the earth-sentrati war
taking the city section of south atteria
island with it
during the latest assault valkyrie pilot
hickory ichijo rescues pop idol
lin-man may but are both trapped in a
section of the fortress for days
even after their eventual rescue this
fateful meeting leads to a relationship
between the singer and her number one
fan
the zentrati meanwhile discover the
debilitating and disruptive effect that
human music has on the rank and file
troops
their supreme leader gorg bodalizer
suspects that the human culture is
deeply related to an
ancient music box he has kept with him
for ian's then
the zentrati discover an opportunity to
examine the humans further when hicaru
borrows a valkyrie trainer unit without
permission and flies mid-may across
saturn's rings
the zentradi capture hikuru and minmei
along with lieutenant misa
hayes minmei's cousin slash manager lin
k fun
and hikuru superior roy fokker in the
ensuing chaos
aboard brataikratinik's ship the humans
are being interrogated about their
culture when a squadron of melt randy
led by milia 639 invades the ship
giving the humans a chance to escape
picaroo and misa escape from the ship
but is killed and minmei and k
fun remain aboard while the two officers
get caught in a space bowl
exiting from the fold hikaru and misa
arrive on a desolate world that turns
out to be earth
as the entire population was wiped out
by a prior zenrotti attack
as the two officers roam the remains of
the planet they become closer
they also discover an ancient city of
the protoculture
where the mysterious origins of the
alien giants is revealed
in the city misa discovers an artifact
that contains lyrics to an
ancient song many days later the macross
arrives on earth
just as hicaru and misa are debriefing
their story to captain bruno j global
the fortress is attacked by a melt randy
fleet
during the battle ace pilot maximilian
genius defeats milia aboard the mel
trondy's main ship
which destroys the macross main cannons
with one shot
the melt randy are forced to retreat
when the zentraati arrive
with minmei's singing voice as their
weapon captain global announces a truce
and a military pact between the macross
and the zentrati
hicaru and minmei reunite but minmei
realizes he is now with misa
meanwhile miso works on translating the
ancient song for use as a cultural
weapon
as requested by vodalyzer however
when the melt randy returned to attack
bodilyser loses patience and recklessly
has his capital ship wipe out half the
fleets of both factions
once again the macross finds itself in
the middle of a brutal war
hickory persuades minmei to perform the
translated song
as the macross flies across the
battlefield minmei's song causes a union
with brittai's fleet and the melt randy
against baudelaiser
after the macross breaks into
botaliser's ship hickory flies his
valkyrie into the supreme commander's
chamber and destroys him with his entire
arsenal
after boatalizer's ship is destroyed
macross bridge officer claudia lasalle
asks why the song caused such a
turnaround to the war
misa explains that it is a simple love
song
the film ends with a concert by minmei
in front of the rebuilt macross
[Music]
you